:sparkles: Chapter 4 - Maintaining (#6)
zenika-open-source/open-source-white-paper: en/04-preparing-your-project-being-open-sourced.md

# Preparing your project being open sourced

> In a [previous article](https://oss.zenika.com/white-paper/getting-started), we helped you submitting your first contribution. You now want to launch your own open source project but you don't know what to do before letting everyone view your code ? No worries, in this article we will give you all pre-requisites you need to launch your project.

Author: ```suggestion
In a [previous article](https://oss.zenika.com/white-paper/getting-started), we showed you how to make your first contribution. You now want to launch your own open source project but you don't know what to do before letting everyone view your code? No worries, in this article we will give you all pre-requisites you need to launch your project.
```

## Pre-requisites

If you want your project to have contributions you need to write a minimum of documentation. There are four files that are essential:

- Readme
- License
- Contributing guide

> - Code of conduct

Author: I think you should add a sub-chapter a the changelog and versionning. It is very important when you start a project

Reviewer: I planned to talk about it in the next chapter about middle/long term project maintaining.

Author: I think it's important when you begin an open source project, as we saw on QuickPerf

We will describe each one and provide you guides to help you writing them.

## README

The first is well known and you probably already have one but let's talk a bit about README.md. 

Mike McQuaid theorized about [the open source contributor funnel](https://mikemcquaid.com/2018/08/14/the-open-source-contributor-funnel-why-people-dont-contribute-to-your-open-source-project/) and how to get contributors on your open source projects. You need to provide information for every type of visitors (*users*, *contributors*, *maintainers*) in your readme.

> Your project description and first paragraph of your readme should be a simple summary of your project which hits all the important keywords that people search for.
> -- [<cite>Andrey Petrov</cite>](https://medium.com/code-zen/how-to-maintain-a-successful-open-source-project-aaa2a5437d3a)

First of all, nobody is in your head. You should explain the **goal** of your project. It doesn't have to be an essay a single sentence is good enough like in [Conference Hall readme](https://github.com/bpetetot/conference-hall).

> > **Conference Hall** is an opened SaaS platform to manage call for papers and speakers submissions for your conferences and meetups. Speaker writes a talk once and can submit it to every events of the platform.

Author: ❤️

## License

The LICENSE file is what make open source possible. It protects *users* and *contributors* by giving them rights to use, copy, modify and contribute to your project. This file is mandatory you should consider not contributing to projects that don't provide a license.

[OSI](https://opensource.org/) is an organism that promote open source software and communities for over 20 years. They have an process to review licenses. The OSI-approved licenses are the most popular licenses like [MIT](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) or [Apache 2.0](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0). We can find a [good comparision](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/) between licenses on [choosealicense.com](https://choosealicense.com/).

> We will talk more about this important and complicated subject in a further article. If you want to get informed about its publication don't hesitate to follow our twitter [@ZenikaOSS](https://twitter.com/ZenikaOSS)!

Author: I prefer to add this sentence at the end of the article:
```
If you want to get informed about its publication don't hesitate to follow our twitter [@ZenikaOSS](https://twitter.com/ZenikaOSS)!
```

The contributing guide is also the good place to describe coding styles. You can enforce good practices such as testing or conventions like in [Immutadot's contributing guide](https://github.com/zenika-open-source/immutadot/blob/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md#tests-and-code-style-policeman).

If your project is on GitHub this file will be [automatically linked](https://help.github.com/en/articles/setting-guidelines-for-repository-contributors) when a contributor open an issue or create a pull request.

## Code of conduct

> Having a CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md in your public repository lets potential *contributors* know in advance how they can expect to be treated by the community and *maintainers*.
> -- [<cite>Michael Jolley</cite>](https://dev.to/michaeljolley/using-a-contributing-codeofconduct-to-assist-others-in-contributing-to-public-repositories-1l90)

The code of conduct of your project is a document that protects every participants. It helps creating a welcoming community. 

> A good addition to your code of conduct is an explanation about how you plan to enforce your code of conduct. It's important to show that you take it seriously so everybody knows what action will be taken in case of a code of conduct violation.

Author: ```suggestion
A good addition to your code of conduct is an explanation about how you plan to enforce it. It's important to show that you take it seriously so everybody knows what action will be taken in case of a code of conduct violation.
```
